# STLtoGCODE
Simple package to convert from an .stl file (a 3d model) to GCODE to control a 2.5D CNC

STL files are commonly used to transmit 3D models. There are many tools to use to tell a 3D printer that builds up models how to convert that file to instructions to the machine. There is software to do the same for telling a machine that uses a spinning tool to remove material to make a model (CNC mills), but these can be complex (FreeCAD) and sometimes expensive (much commercial software), and may not work on all platforms (pycam). STLtoGCODE is a simple approach that converts an STL file to the basic GCODE used for controlling a CNC -- it has far fewer features than commercial or other open source tools (no custom bit shapes, no clever algorithms for spiral cuts, outlining) but it's a fast way to go from an STL file to instructions that will run on a typical small garage CNC. Note this works for "2.5D" objects: things that are relief (think about a model of the Grand Canyon or Mount Fuji, rather than a sphere) -- it's for a home CNC that can only remove material from the top down. 

All software may have bugs, and these can have real world impacts -- you do not want an automated IV pump to dispense the wrong dosage, or banking software to lose your deposit. This package makes code to have an expensive robot put a quickly spinning piece of metal into wood or some other hard material and drag it around. **Things can go very wrong.** Please inspect the GCODE it creates and verify that it will work for your machine and your set up. If you cannot verify this, you should not use this tool. This code may have mistakes that could lead to potentially catastrophic mistakes if you trust it. I am creating it for my own use, but I believe in the open source ethos and encourage competent people to improve this code. There is no warranty, use as your own risk.